We're now able to keep the old user data and as you see, it was relatively easy using that value we attribute
and ensuring that we simply return the input the user entered.
Now obviously you can also do even more on your frontend side,
for example you could give these invalid inputs a red border, that is also something you often see and for that
you just have to keep in mind that you have to use that information which you're getting to pass it
to your view and then render something different based on that information.
So in our case here for example in the sign up route, we do have our errors array here right, here where I output
my errors array and that errors array contains all the problematic fields.
Now we then return an error message based on that array
but of course we could pass another key here, validation errors or whatever name you want
and that could be just errors array.
So the full array is now returned as well
in my render function, so now I'm returning not just the first message which I picked to show but also the full
array of errors.
Now as always this means that I should go to my other scenario, get sign up and also render that,
so validation errors here would be an empty array because I got no errors
and now we know it's either an empty array
if we load that page without errors or we have an array of inputs that do have well problems.
So how can we now benefit from that array of errors?
Well we can go back to our frontend and there, we could change the styling of that input based on the
existence of an error for that input,
now how can we do that?
Well let me structure this over multiple lines to make it a bit easier to read
and then here on this input, we could assign a conditional css class that sets an invalid styling.
So we could add class here
and now we use ejs syntax to output something there
and what I want to output here is that I check my validation errors which is that array of errors which
I just talked about and there I try to find which is a built-in javascript method we can call on arrays,
I try to find an error where error
param is equal to email and
keep in mind these are the error objects in that array,
they do have a param field which holds the name of the problematic input.
So here I'm trying to find an error for the email input because I'm on the email input here in my html
code.
Now this will either return
undefined or null if I don't find it or it will give me that entry I'm looking for.
So I can check if that is not false-ish,
so if it is not undefined or anything like that, then I want to add invalid as a class here
otherwise I will not add anything,
so just an empty string because that should be text that is added as a css class.
Now with that I should get that invalid class on my input when I do have an error for the email control.
Now to see something, I'll go to my a public folder real quick to css and there to the forms.css and
in there, let me now add the invalid class which is the class I just defined in my template
and let's give it a border color of red.
Now due to the way css works, I should also be more precise here and say if a form control input has
the class invalid, so this css selector.
Let me save that and let me hit sign in again
and now we see this red border because if we inspect this element, we see that indeed the invalid css
class was added. And now that is a pattern which we of course can repeat in our view,
we can go or we can take that logic here for adding a class and we can add that to any input
obviously, not just to the email.
So here I'll do it for my password and I'll simply check for the password control here
and of course you could find other ways of implementing this,
this is just one example
but it is an example where we would now also mark the password red if it is invalid
and the same for confirm password of course. There we can also simply restructure that for readability
reasons, for nothing else than that and then simply add this css class here based on the confirm password
field.
And now with that changed
if I hit sign up here, you see these are all red.
The password is not because it's actually valid,
if I would enter a too short one, they're all red
and now this is another way of enhancing the user experience.
Now feel free to play around with that and find your own solutions,
see what else you can do,
I just want to give you the ideas on how you can utilize that information
the server side validation package gives you and of course, you also see how you can pass that information
to your frontend.